---
title: "Connect to the EC2 Instance"
weight: 1
chapter: false
pre: "<b> 2.1.1. </b>"
---

There are two methods to connect to the EC2-Instance:

1. Through the traditional RDP client, which is more complex and requires more steps and

2. Through AWS Fleet Manager, which is easier and requires fewer steps and is our recommended approach.

Though the instructions below cover both, we suggest you start with Fleet Manager approach which is listed first.

If you are using a browser where copy and paste won't work, we suggest opening the lab instructions in a browser inside the RDP window with fleet manager to enable copy and paste.

### Fleet Manager Remote Desktop approach

_(RDP Approach is after this section if you have chosen that way. You can skip to that section by [clicking here](#classic-desktop-rdp-connection-approach).)_

{{% notice note %}}

**_Note 1:_** If using Fleet Manager to connect, we recommend Chrome-based browser as non-Chrome-based browsers may not support copy and paste. It is also suggested to open a browser inside the RDP instance and go to the **AWS Database Migration Workshop** full url (https://catalog.workshops.aws/databasemigration) then you can cut and paste inside the instance. 
\
\
**_Note 2:_** With Chrome, sometimes you still have to maximize/full screen the RDP window then go back to standard, or even reconnect altogether for copy paste to work
\
\
**_Note 3:_** If you are using a browser where copy and paste won't work, we suggest opening the lab instructions in a browser inside the RDP window with fleet manager to enable copy and paste.

{{% /notice %}}

1. Go to the [AWS Fleet Manger console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/managed-instances) and click on the instance with a name that ends with **_-EC2Instance_** (if you start on the Fleet Manager dashboard click the **Getting Started** Button) then select Node actions button and select **Connect with Remote Desktop** as show in the image below (if you get a something went wrong message or don't see an instance make sure you are in the correct region for your event)

1. Select the **Key pair** radio button then select **Browse** to find the key pair downloaded to your local machine. You should have downloaded the key pair earlier (covered in the [**Getting started**](../../1-Start/) section under download key pair). If you have not, go to **Key pair** in the **Amazon EC2 Console** and download it now.

1. Click **Connect**.

1. Click **No** on the right sidebar **Networks > Network 10** when asked **_Do you want to allow your PC to be discoverable....?_** on the right if it shows up.

{{% notice info %}}
If you have successfully connected to the EC2 desktop via **Fleet Manager**, you can now proceed to the next section of your lab. Otherwise...
{{% /notice %}}

### Classic Desktop RDP connection approach

_(We will use Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) to connect to the Amazon EC2 Instance.)_

If you are using OS X, you can get Microsoft Remote Desktop from app store [here](https://apps.apple.com/app/microsoft-remote-desktop/id1295203466?mt=12).

1. Go to the [AWS EC2 console](http://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/) and click on Security Groups in the left column (you may have to scroll down some).

1. Select the security group that ends in **_-InstanceSecurityGroup_** by checking the box then click **Actions > Edit > Inbound** rules as shown below.

1. Edit the inbound rules for RDP by clicking **Source** and selecting **My IP** as shown below. Click **Save rules** (Note this is following best practices if you have a VPN or complex network you may need to come back and change this to Anywhere IPv4 0.0.0.0/0 but we'll start with this)

1. Go to the [AWS EC2 console](http://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/) and click on **Instances** in the left column.

1. Select the instance with the name **<StackName>-EC2Instance** and then click the **Actions** button. Click on **Connect**.

1. Go to the **RDP client** section, and click on **Get Password**.

1. Click on **Browse** and upload the Key Pair file that you downloaded earlier.

1. Click on **Decrypt Password**.

1. Copy the generated password to your notepad. You will use this password to connect to login to the EC2 instance.

1. Click on **Download Remote Desktop File** to download the RDP file to access this EC2 instance.

1. Connect to the EC2 instance using a RDP client.

{{% notice note %}}
If you get a connection error and you are on a corporate VPN, we suggest you drop the Corp VPN repeat steps 2 & 3 in the RDP Client section above and retry connecting. If you still have issues please contact one of the facilitators or assistance in your session.
{{% /notice %}}