---
title: "Install Schema Conversion Tool"
weight: 1
chapter: false
pre: "<b> 3.1.1.1. </b>"
---

Reconnected the EC2 instance we used to prepare the source database via rdp or Fleet Manager, we will install the AWS Schema Conversion tool on this server. Downloading the file and installing it will give you the latest version of the AWS Schema Conversion Tool.

1. On the EC2 server, open the **"DMS Workshop"** folder that is on the Desktop. Then, double-click on **"AWS Schema Conversion Tool Download"** to get the latest version of the software like picture below. (Note: if it asks do you want to open this file say **"YES"**.)

1. When the download is complete, unzip the content (double click lower left corner of browser where download occurred or click once and select Open) double click on the install AWS Schema windows install package file and follow the install wizard steps taking the defaults and complete the install the AWS Schema Conversion Tool by clicking finish once done. (like the images below). Note: Fleet Mgr double click can be tricky. Single click and hit enter key with the file highlighted works better some times. If you see Compressed Folder error pop up close this window and try the single click enter key approach vs. double click with mouse. Also sometimes the install wizard gets covered up so see if it is on the task bar at bottom and click on it there it looks like windows installation icon at bottom of RDP screen. If you still have issues ask your AWS contact/instructor.

1. The example installation process is in the following pictures:

    When the installer is complete, the installation dialog will disappear. There is no other notification.

1. Once the installation is complete, open the **Start Menu** and launch the **AWS Schema Conversion Tool** or you can double click on the SCT orange box icon on the desktop.

1. Accept the terms and Conditions.

{{% notice note %}}
Aurora MySQL will need some additional permissions before we run SCT, so make your you did the following steps before proceeding to the next section.
{{% /notice %}}


{{%expand "Expand to see this section if your migration target schema is Aurora MySQL" %}}
1. Open **MySQL Workbench 8.0 CE** from within the EC2 server, and create a new database connection for the target Aurora database using the following values. Please note the password is not provided below you need to go to **Secrets Manager** and open **DMSDBSecret** and reveal the SQL Server password. It is also on first Cloudformation Stack's output tab under SQL Server password (yes this is mysql but the passwords are the same for sql server & mysql in this case):


    |  Parameter	 |  Value  |
    |-------------|---------------------------|
    |  Connection Name	 | ` Target Aurora RDS (MySQL)`  |
    |  Host Name	 |  <TargetAuroraMySQLEndpoint> - you can find this on **Cloudformation > cfn > output tab** or you can goto RDS in the AWS console and find your Aurora MySQL Target instance
    |  Port	 |  3306  |
    |  Username	 |  `dbadmin`  |
    |  Password	 |  See Cloudformation Output tab & DMSDBSecretP or look it up in AWS Secrets Manager for SQL Server  |
    |  Default Schema	 |  leave blank  |

1. Click Test Connection button. After you receive a message stating “Successfully made the MySQL connection”, click OK.

1. Click on the Target Aurora RDS (MySQL) from the list of MySQL Connections in SQL Workbench to connect to the target database.

1. Copy the following permission sql statements and execute them in the workbench tool (Lighting icon is execute/run icon).

    ```sql
    GRANT CREATE ON *.* TO 'dbadmin';
    GRANT ALTER ON *.* TO 'dbadmin';
    GRANT DROP ON *.* TO 'dbadmin';
    GRANT INDEX ON *.* TO 'dbadmin';
    GRANT REFERENCES ON *.* TO 'dbadmin';
    GRANT SELECT ON *.* TO 'dbadmin';
    GRANT CREATE VIEW ON *.* TO 'dbadmin';
    GRANT SHOW VIEW ON *.* TO 'dbadmin';
    GRANT TRIGGER ON *.* TO 'dbadmin';
    GRANT CREATE ROUTINE ON *.* TO 'dbadmin';
    GRANT ALTER ROUTINE ON *.* TO 'dbadmin';
    GRANT EXECUTE ON *.* TO 'dbadmin';
    -- only for MySQL <8.0 GRANT SELECT ON mysql.proc TO 'awssct';
    GRANT INSERT, UPDATE ON AWS_SQLSERVER_EXT.* TO 'dbadmin';
    GRANT INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE ON AWS_SQLSERVER_EXT_DATA.* TO 'dbadmin';
    GRANT CREATE TEMPORARY TABLES ON AWS_SQLSERVER_EXT_DATA.* TO 'dbadmin';
    GRANT CREATE TEMPORARY TABLES ON *.* TO 'dbadmin';
    -- MySQL <8 code GRANT INVOKE LAMBDA ON *.* TO 'awssct';
    GRANT AWS_LAMBDA_ACCESS TO 'dbadmin'; 
    GRANT INSERT, UPDATE ON AWS_ORACLE_EXT.* TO 'dbadmin';
    GRANT INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE ON AWS_ORACLE_EXT_DATA.* TO 'dbadmin';
    grant INSERT ON aws_sqlserver_ext.* to 'dbadmin';
    grant UPDATE ON aws_sqlserver_ext.* to 'dbadmin';
    ```

After execution, the output should look something like the image below. We suggest you keep MySQL workbench open as you'll come back to it later in the DMS section.

You can now change the EC2 instance you are RDP-ed into back to the Schema conversion tool and click Next below.
{{% /expand%}}